Well, let’s look at Jude 9 in context.
Open to the book of Jude.
We’ll read verse 1, first of all.
It says:
“Jude, a slave of Jesus Christ,
“but a brother of James,
to the called ones
who are loved by God the Father
and preserved for Jesus Christ.”
What a beautiful,
humble introduction by Jude.
Didn’t you like that expression,
“loved by God the Father
and preserved for Jesus Christ”?
Beautiful.
But why do we say
that it was a humble introduction?
Well, you notice he said,
‘slave of Jesus
and brother of James.’
Well, who was James?
Well, he was
the half brother of Jesus.
So that means that Jude
also was a half brother of Jesus,
but he never alluded to that
in his introduction.
He simply said, ‘a slave of Christ.’
Now, the Bible doesn’t say,
but very likely
both James and Jude
felt a measure of regret
that they had not become
a disciple of Jesus
while he was on earth.
So much so to the point that Jesus,
when he was dying,
he left their mother’s care
in their cousin John’s hands
rather than to either one of them.
But once they came
to their senses spiritually,
they were wholly devoted
for the teachings of Jesus
and his Father.
And Jude, the book of Jude,
is an example that a short letter
can be powerful.
Now if you look in verse 3,
Jude had intended
to write about the salvation
that all Christians hold in common.
But because of circumstances
in the congregation at the time,
he changed his mind
or Jehovah changed it for him.
And so now the book of Jude
becomes a local needs part.
And what was the need
in the congregations at the time?
Well, glance down
through some of the verses.
In verse 4,
‘certain men have slipped
into the congregation.’
He says they are
‘ungodly, with brazen conduct.’
[Verses] 12 and 13:
‘rocks below the water,’
“waterless clouds,”
‘fruitless trees having died twice,’
‘waves casting up the foam of shame,’
“stars with no set course.”
Look at 16:
‘These men are murmurers, complainers,
‘following their own desires,
making grandiose boasts
while they are flattering others
for their own benefit.’
So he’s really describing the traits
of apostates today, isn’t he?
But what is verse 9 all about?
Can we read it again in its entirety?
It says: ‘When Michael the archangel
had a difference with the Devil
‘and was disputing about Moses’ body,
‘he did not dare to bring judgment
against him in abusive terms,
but said:
“May Jehovah rebuke you.”’
Well, Michael’s name
is the name of Jesus
when he was in heaven,
both before and after his sojourn
to the earth.
Well, when did this dispute
with the Devil over Moses’ body occur?
Well, it certainly wasn’t when Jude
was writing this in 65 [C.E.].
He’s just using this
as an example from the past
of one who did not assume authority
that did not belong to him.
Find Deuteronomy 34:6 with me.
Now evidently,
the Devil wanted Moses’ body
to ensnare the Israelites
into some kind of relic worship
and so he wanted Moses’ body.
Verse 6 of Deuteronomy 34,
it says of Moses being buried,
it says:
“He buried him
in the valley in the land of Moab,
“opposite Beth-peor,
and nobody knows
where his grave is down to this day.”
The February 15, 2015,
Watchtower explained
that Michael had no qualms
about arguing this case legally
with Satan,
because really that’s what it was,
it was a matter of Satan
didn’t have the right to Moses’ body.
So like a skillful trial lawyer,
Michael disputed,
it says with him in the Bible, disputed,
or we could say,
argued the case.
But then when it came time
for a decision about what to do with Satan,
he left that for the Supreme Judge.
So Jude was giving a lesson
to those in the congregations
that he said were ‘despising authority,
speaking abusively of glorious ones.’
It was a lesson for them.
Michael set a good example
of not overstepping authority.
And that becomes
an equally good lesson for us today
to know the limits
of our authority and responsibility.
And unlike those rebellious ones
in Jude’s day,
we don’t want to be rebellious.
Instead, we want to follow
the lead of the faithful slave
—be content to do that—
the slave that Michael,
our Lord Christ Jesus,
is using today.
Well,
in deferring to Jehovah’s decision,
was Jesus in any way
showing weakness?
No, it was
just respect for authority.
How do we know?
Well, after the birth
of the Messianic Kingdom,
there was no waiting for Jehovah
in that case
to bring Satan to terms,
rebuke him,
because Jehovah
had authorized Jesus, Michael,
had authorized him to war
with the Devil and his demons,
to throw them out of the heavens,
and Jesus did so with gusto.
Well, here’s a question:
Are apostates today as reprehensible
as those ones that Jude
mentioned in his short letter?
Are they devious?
Or maybe they’re sincerely trying
to help poor, misguided Witnesses.
No.
They’re devious.
Have you ever noticed that apostates
generally do not try
to reason from the Scriptures?
Why not?
Because they know
we know the Scriptures,
and we would see
through the twisting.
Instead, they picket the organization,
they twist truth,
they use lies, half-truths,
to try to grab a mind.
Well, are they deceitful?
Absolutely.
Here’s an example.
I worked in Writing Correspondence
many years ago,
and they get letters from everyone
that has our address.
And sometimes
those letters
are from ones who have been fed
apostate information.
And one example I came through
in my stack of letters,
was from a sincere older lady.
It seemed by the look of the scrawl
of her handwriting,
it was probably an older woman,
and she sent in a photocopy
from a page
of a 1910 Watchtower.
And her question is:
“Why did your Mr. Russell say
that you only need to read his books,
Studies in the Scriptures,
instead of the Bible?”
Well, I read over the photocopy
and it looks like
that’s exactly what it said.
But then I got an original
of the 1910 magazine and compared,
and very quickly
you could discern the deceit,
the trickery, that was involved.
When photocopying that page,
they put a piece of white paper
over the bottom part of the page
so that you didn’t see
the bottom of the first column.
And they were very tricky;
they placed it exactly on a line,
where it sounded like
when reading down the first column,
that the sentence completed
on the second column.
But what was in the first part
of that column
that they had made invisible
with the paper?
It was a subheading,
“‘Scripture Studies’
Not a Substitute for the Bible.”
And here’s what it said in that text
that disappeared with the photocopying.
It says: “This is not,
therefore, putting Scripture Studies
“as a substitute for the Bible,
“because so far as substituting
for the Bible,
“the Studies, on the contrary,
continually refer to the Bible;
“and if anyone has any doubt
as to a reference
“or if one’s recollection
should lapse in any degree,
“one should refresh his memory,
“and, in fact, should see
that his every thought
“is in harmony with the Bible
“—not merely in accord
with Scripture Studies,
but in accord with the Bible.”
Now, why would someone do that?
They doctored the page
because of deceit and trickery.
There was no sincere effort
to help that dear old lady
who received the copy.
Well, the book of Jude is applicable
for our view of those today
who are like evil rocks
hidden below the water.
But let’s end our discussion
with a flourish
of positive reinforcement
from the pen of Jude.
In Jude,
verses 24 and 25,
it says: “Now to the one who is able
to guard you from stumbling
“and to make you stand unblemished
in the sight of his glory with great joy,
“to the only God our Savior
through Jesus Christ our Lord,
“be glory, majesty, might,
“and authority for all past eternity
“and now and into all eternity.
Amen.”